A bibliophile of little means is likely to suffer often. Books don't slip from his hands but fly past him through the air, high as birds, high as prices.
I love you without knowing how, or when, or from where. I love you simply, without problems or pride: I love you in this way because I do not know any other way of loving but this.
I love you as certain dark things are to be loved, in secret, between the shadow and the soul.
Love is so short, forgetting is so long.
Someday, somewhere - anywhere, unfailingly, youll find yourself, and that, and only that, can be the happiest or bitterest hour of your life.
I want to do with you what spring does with the cherry trees.
Tonight I can write the saddest lines,I loved her, and sometimes she loved me too.
As if you were on fire from within.
So I wait for you like a lonely house till you will see me again and live in me, till then my windows ache.
You can cut all the flowers but you cannot keep Spring from coming.
I can write the saddest poem of all tonight. I loved her, and sometimes she loved me too.
Let us forget with generosity those who cannot love us.
Laughter is the language of the soul.
You are like nobody since I love you.
To feel the love of people whom we love is a fire that feeds our life.
We the mortals touch the metals, the wind, the ocean shores, the stones, knowing they will go on, inert or burning,and I was discovering, naming all the these things.
It was my destiny to love and say goodbye.
In this part of the story I am the one who dies, the only one, and I will die of love because I love you, because I love you, Love, in fire and in blood.
Only do not forget, if I wake up crying it's only because in my dream Im a lost childhunting through the leaves of the night for your hands.
My feet will want to walk to where you are sleeping but I shall go on living.
And one by one the nights between our separated cities are joined to the night that unites us.
Then love knew it was called love.
And when I lifted my eyes to your name,suddenly your heart showed me my way.
I am no longer in love with her, thats certain, but maybe I love her. Love is so short, forgetting is so long.
I love you without knowing how, or when, or from where, I love you simply, without problems or pride.
I love you in this way because I don’t know any other way of loving.
It was at that age that poetry came in search of me.
Love! Love until the night collapses.
I got lost in the night, without the light of your eyelids, and when the night surrounded me I was born again: I was the owner of my own darkness.
It was my destiny to love and say goodbye.
In what language does rain fall over tormented cities? 
I hunger for your sleek laugh and your hands the color of a furious harvest. I want to eat the sunbeams flaring in your beauty.
The books that help you most are those which make you think the most.
 The hardest way of learning is that of easy reading; but a great book that comes from a great thinker is a ship of thought, deep freighted with truth and beauty.
While Im writing, Im far away; and when I come back, Ive gone.
I crave your mouth, your voice, your hair.
Silent and starving, I prowl through the streets.
Bread does not nourish me, dawn disrupts me, all day I hunt for the liquid measure of your steps.
Green was the silence, wet was the light, the month of June trembled like a butterfly.
Love is the mystery of water and a star.
Give me silence, water, hope Give me struggle, iron, volcanoes.
Who writes your name in letters of smoke among the stars of the south?
Oh let me remember you as you were before you existed.
At night I dream that you and I are two plants that grew together, roots entwined, and that you know the earth and the rain like my mouth, since we are made of earth and rain.
Do tears not yet spilled wait in small lakes?
If nothing saves us from death, at least love should save us from life.
Give me your hand out of the depths sown by your sorrows.
Bitter love, a violet with its crown of thorns in a thicet of spiky passions, spear of sorrow, corolla of rage: how did you come to conquer my soul? What brought you?
I want to see thirst In the syllables, Tough fire In the sound; Feel through the dark For the scream.
My soul is an empty carousel at sunset.
Here I came to the very edge where nothing at all needs saying and every day on the balcony of the sea wings open fire is born and everything is blue again like morning.
I have slept with you all night long while the dark earth spins with the living and the dead, and on waking suddenly in the midst of the shadow my arm encircled your waist. Neither night nor sleep could separate us.
Everything is ceremony in the wild garden of childhood.
And I watch my words from a long way off.
They are more yours than mine.
They climb on my old suffering like ivy.
Poetry is an act of peace. Peace goes into the making of a poet as flour goes into the making of bread.
About me, nothing worse they will tell you, my love, than what I told you. 
Love you as one loves certain dark things, secretly, between the shadow and the soul.
In the eyes of mourning the land of dreams begins.
I dont want to go on being a root in the dark, vacillating, stretched out, shivering with sleep, downward, in the soaked guts of the earth, absorbing and thinking.
I love all things, not only the grand but the infinitely small: thimble, spurs, plates, flower vases.
Like a jar you housed infinite tenderness and the infinite tenderness shattered you like a jar.
How much does a man live, after all? Does he live a thousand days, or one only?
For a week, or for several centuries? How long does a man spend dying? What does it mean to say for ever? 
I have forgotten your love, yet I seem to glimpse you in every window.
I love you only because its you the one I love; I hate you deeply, and hating you.
Bend to you, and the measure of my changing love for you is that I do not see you but love you blindly.
There were thirst and hunger, and you were the fruit.
And our problems will crumble apart, the soul / blow through like a wind, and here where we live will all be clean again, with fresh bread on the table.
How you must have suffered getting accustomed to me, my savage, solitary soul, my name that sends them all running.
So many times we have seen the morning star burn, kissing our eyes, and over our heads the grey light unwinds in turning fans.
With which stars do they go on speaking,the rivers that never reach the sea?
I asked them a slew of questions.
They offered to burn me; it was the only thing they knew.
I am everybody and every time, I always call myself by your name.
Absence is a house so vast that inside you will pass through its walls and hang pictures on the air.
We must dream our way.
Every day you play with the light of the universe.
He who has nothing—it has been said many times—has nothing to lose but his chains.
Like a jar you housed the infinite tenderness, and the infinite oblivion shattered you like a jar.
Everything is so alive, that I can be alive. Without moving I can see it all. In your life I see everything that lives.
In one kiss, youll know all I havent said and what importance do I have in the courtroom of oblivion?
From sorrow to sorrow love crosses its islands and establishes roots that are watered by weeping.
Sometimes a piece of sun burned like a coin in my hands the birds of night peck at the first stars that flash like my soul when I love you.
Take bread away from me, if you wish, take air away, but do not take from me your laughter.
So the freshness lives on in a lemon, in the sweet-smelling house of the rind, the proportions, arcane and acerb.
The light that rises from your feet to your hair, the strength enfolding your delicate form,are not mother of pearl, not chilly silver.
You are made of bread, a bread the fire adores.
The grain grew high in its harvest of you, in good time the flour swelled; as the dough rose, doubling your breasts, my love was the coal waiting ready in the earth.
Fire taugh you a lesson of the blood; you learned your holiness from flour, from bread your language and aroma.
Oceanic dawn at the center of my life, waves like grapes, the sky's solitude, you fill me.
Sea foam's white battalions, the orange earth, the sun's fiery waist in agony, so many gifts and talents.
We men touch the water, struggling, and hoping, we touch the sea.
And the waves tell the firm coast: 'Everything will be fulfilled.'
The memory of you emerges from the night around me.
The river mingles its stubborn lament with the sea.
Deserted like the wharves at dawn.
It is the hour of departure, oh deserted one!
Cold flower heads are raining over my heart.
Oh pit of debris, fierce cave of the shipwrecked.
In you the wars and the flights accumulated.
From you the wings of the song birds rose.
You swallowed everything, like distance.
Like the sea, like time. In you everything sank!
It was the happy hour of assault and the kiss.
The hour of the spell that blazed like a lighthouse.
Pilot's dread, fury of blind driver,turbulent drunkenness of love, in you everything sank!
In the childhood of mist my soul, winged and wounded.
Lost discoverer, in you everything sank!
You girdled sorrow, you clung to desire, sadness stunned you, in you everything sank!
I made the wall of shadow draw back, beyond desire and act, I walked on.
Oh flesh, my own flesh, woman whom I loved and lost, I summon you in the moist hour, I raise my song to you.
Like a jar you housed infinite tenderness.
and the infinite oblivion shattered you like a jar.
There was the black solitude of the islands, and there, woman of love, your arms took me in.
There was thirst and hunger, and you were the fruit.
There were grief and ruins, and you were the miracle.
Ah woman, I do not know how you could contain me in the earth of your soul, in the cross of your arms!
How terrible and brief my desire was to you!
How difficult and drunken, how tensed and avid.
Cemetery of kisses, there is still fire in your tombs, still the fruited boughs burn, pecked at by birds.
Oh the bitten mouth, oh the kissed limbs, oh the hungering teeth, oh the entwined bodies.
Oh the mad coupling of hope and force in which we merged and despaired.
And the tenderness, light as water and as flour.
And the word scarcely begun on the lips.
This was my destiny and in it was my voyage of my longing,and in it my longing fell, in you everything sank!
Oh pit of debris, everything fell into you, what sorrow did you not express, in what sorrow are you not drowned!
From billow to billow you still called and sang.
Standing like a sailor in the prow of a vessel.
You still flowered in songs, you still brike the currents.
Oh pit of debris, open and bitter well.
Pale blind diver, luckless slinger, lost discoverer, in you everything sank!
It is the hour of departure, the hard cold hour which the night fastens to all the timetables.
The rustling belt of the sea girdles the shore.
Cold stars heave up, black birds migrate.
Deserted like the wharves at dawn.
Only tremulous shadow twists in my hands.
Oh farther than everything. Oh farther than everything.
It is the hour of departure. Oh abandoned one!
Things get broken at home like they were pushed by an invisible, deliberate smasher.
It's not my hands or yours It wasn't the girls with their hard fingernails or the motion of the planet.
It wasn't anything or anybody It wasn't the wind It wasn't the orange-colored noontime Or night over the earth.
The plate broke, the lamp fell All the flower pots tumbled overone by one.
That pot which overflowed with scarlet in the middle of October, it got tired from all the violets and another empty one rolled round and round and round.
All through winter until it was only the powder of a flowerpot, a broken memory, shining dust.
And what lasts through time is like an island on a ship in the sea, perishable surrounded by dangerous fragility by merciless waters and threats.
Let's put all our treasures together into a sack and carry them to the sea and let our possessions sink into one alarming breaker that sounds like a river.
May whatever breaks be reconstructed by the sea with the long labor of its tides.
So many useless things which nobody broke but which got broken anyway.
If your eyes were not the color of the moon, of a day full of clay, and work, and fire, if even held-in you did not move in agile grace like the air, if you were not an amber week.
Oh, my dearest, I could not love you so!
But when I hold you I hold everything that is sand, time, the tree of the rain, everything is alive so that I can be alive.
without moving I can see it all:
in your life I see everything that lives.
I do not love you as if you were salt-rose, or topaz,
or the arrow of carnations the fire shoots off.
I love you as certain dark things are to be loved, in secret, between the shadow and the soul.
I love you as the plant that never blooms but carries in itself the light of hidden flowers.
Thanks to your love a certain solid fragrance, risen from the earth, lives darkly in my body.
I love you without knowing how, or when, or from where.
I love you straightforwardly, without complexities or pride; so I love you because I know no other way.
Where I does not exist, nor you, so close that your hand on my chest is my hand, so close that your eyes close as I fall asleep.
Tonight I can write the saddest lines.
Write, for example,'The night is shattered and the blue stars shiver in the distance.
The night wind revolves in the sky and sings.
Tonight I can write the saddest lines.
I loved her, and sometimes she loved me too.
Through nights like this one I held her in my arms I kissed her again and again under the endless sky.
She loved me sometimes, and I loved her too.
How could one not have loved her great still eyes.
Tonight I can write the saddest lines.
To think that I do not have her. To feel that I have lost her.
To hear the immense night, still more immense without her.
And the verse falls to the soul like dew to the pasture.
What does it matter that my love could not keep her.
The night is shattered and she is not with me.
In the distance someone is singing.
My soul is not satisfied that it has lost her.
My sight searches for her as though to go to her.
My heart looks for her, and she is not with me.
The same night whitening the same trees.
We, of that time, are no longer the same.
I no longer love her, that's certain, but how I loved her.
My voice tried to find the wind to touch her hearing.
Another's. She will be another's. Like my kisses before.
Her voide. Her bright body. Her inifinite eyes.
I no longer love her, that's certain, but maybe I love her.
Love is so short, forgetting is so long.
Because through nights like this one I held her in my arms my sould is not satisfied that it has lost her.
Though this be the last pain that she makes me suffer and these the last verses that I write for her.
Drunk as drunk on turpentine From your open kisses, your wet body wedged between my wet body and the strakeof our boat that is made of flowers, Feasted, we guide it - our fingers.
Like tallows adorned with yellow metal over the sky's hot rim, the day's last breath in our sails.
Pinned by the sun between solstice and equinox, drowsy and tangled together we drifted for months and woke with the bitter taste of land on our lips.
Eyelids all sticky, and we longed for lime and the sound of a rope lowering a bucket down its well.
Then, We came by night to the Fortunate Isles, And lay like fish under the net of our kisses.